src/Bridge/Symfony/README.md, before:

# Symfony Bridge for AI Mate

This bridge provides MCP tools for inspecting Symfony applications.

## Features

- **Service Container Inspection**: List all registered services from the Symfony container
- **Auto-detection**: Automatically finds container XML in cache directories (dev/test/prod)

## Available Tools

### symfony-services

Get a list of all Symfony services registered in the container.

```
Returns: array<string, class-string|null>
  - Key: Service ID
  - Value: Service class (or null for aliases)
```

## Configuration

Configure the cache directory in your service configuration:

```php
// config/services.php
$configurator->parameters()
    ->set('ai_mate_symfony.cache_dir', '%root_dir%/var/cache');
```

The tool will search for `App_KernelDevDebugContainer.xml` in:
- `{cache_dir}/`
- `{cache_dir}/dev/`
- `{cache_dir}/test/`
- `{cache_dir}/prod/`

## Installation

The bridge is automatically discovered when installed as a Composer package with type `ai-mate-extension`.

```bash
composer require symfony/ai-mate-symfony
```

Then enable it in your `.mcp.php` configuration:

```php
return [
    'enabled_plugins' => [
        'symfony/ai-mate-symfony',
    ],
];
```

## Resources

- [Contributing](https://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/index.html)
- [Report issues](https://github.com/symfony/ai/issues) and
  [send Pull Requests](https://github.com/symfony/ai/pulls)
  in the [main Symfony AI repository](https://github.com/symfony/ai)

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect extensions terminology and new configuration
- Replace 'enabled_plugins' with 'enabled_extensions' terminology throughout docs
- Update configuration file references from .mcp.php to .mate/extensions.php
- Update local directory references from mcp/ to mate/
- Add mcpDisableFeature() examples with new 3-parameter signature (extension, type, name)
- Update installation sections in Bridge READMEs with new configuration format
- Clarify that extensions must be explicitly enabled in .mate/extensions.php

src/Bridge/Symfony/README.md, after:

# Symfony Bridge for AI Mate

This bridge provides MCP tools for inspecting Symfony applications.

## Features

- **Service Container Inspection**: List all registered services from the Symfony container
- **Auto-detection**: Automatically finds container XML in cache directories (dev/test/prod)

## Available Tools

### symfony-services

Get a list of all Symfony services registered in the container.

```
Returns: array<string, class-string|null>
  - Key: Service ID
  - Value: Service class (or null for aliases)
```

## Configuration

Configure the cache directory in your service configuration:

```php
// config/services.php
$configurator->parameters()
    ->set('ai_mate_symfony.cache_dir', '%root_dir%/var/cache');
```

The tool will search for `App_KernelDevDebugContainer.xml` in:
- `{cache_dir}/`
- `{cache_dir}/dev/`
- `{cache_dir}/test/`
- `{cache_dir}/prod/`

## Installation

The bridge is automatically discovered when installed as a Composer package with `extra.ai-mate` configuration.

```bash
composer require symfony/ai-mate-symfony
vendor/bin/mate discover
```

The `discover` command will automatically add it to `.mate/extensions.php`:

```php
return [
    'symfony/ai-mate-symfony' => ['enabled' => true],
];
```

## Resources

- [Contributing](https://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/index.html)
- [Report issues](https://github.com/symfony/ai/issues) and
  [send Pull Requests](https://github.com/symfony/ai/pulls)
  in the [main Symfony AI repository](https://github.com/symfony/ai)
